---
title: 'What I Learned from Doing 100+ LeetCode Problems'
date: '2024-07-11'
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Data Structures
  - Algorithms
  - Technical Interviews
---

### Practice is Key

Throughout my journey of solving over 100 LeetCode problems, one of the most valuable lessons I've learned is the importance of consistent practice. Initially, even the easy problems seemed challenging, but as I built a solid foundation and kept at consistent practice, my confidence grew, enabling me to tackle more complex problems as well improving my problem solving efficiency.

### Mastering and Knowing Your Data Structures

A solid grasp of data structures is fundamental for solving algorithmic problems effectively. During my practice, I focused on mastering essential data structures such as arrays, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, and graphs. 
Understanding when and how to apply each structure optimally was key coming up with efficient solutions.

### Mastering and Knowing Your Algorithms

Algorithms are pivotal in problem-solving. Understanding which algorithm to apply for a given problem is key to achieving an efficient solution.

### Conclusion

In conclusion, embarking on the challenge of solving 100+ LeetCode problems has been a tough yet incredibly rewarding experience. It has equipped me with confidence and significantly enhanced my problem-solving skills compared to where I started.

## Next Steps

I will continue to leverage leetcode as part of my daily programming practice,applying the problem solving knowledge and skills, to continue building projects.